[PROCAPPS-531] Update Documentation With Best Practices (#21167)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/monitors/types/process.md

## Overview

Live Process Monitors are based on data collected by the [Process Agent][1]. Create monitors that warn or alert based on the count of any group of processes across hosts or tags.

> Live Process Monitors are recommended to:

Reviewer: Feels like a bit of an unfinished leading sentence, maybe
```suggestion
Live Process Monitors are best used in the following scenarios:
```

Author: Actually `recommend to:` was @alai97's suggestion: https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/pull/21167#discussion_r1440918292.

But yeah, I agree with your suggestion. I will update it

- Ensure that enough instances of a non-containerized long-lived process are running.
- Flag when a specific process is running.

**Note**: Only long-lived processes are picked up by the Agent. Monitors on processes that live for less than 20 seconds may be flaky.

## Monitor creation

> To create a [Live Process Monitor][2] in Datadog, use the main navigation: *Monitors --> New Monitor --> Live Process*.

Reviewer: Worth mentioning the easier path via Processes view and New Monitor button - this can generate more views for the product and easier to track in RUM?

Author: Oh yep! That's a super good point that I didn't think about

### Select processes

> You can use either tags or a fuzzy search to filter across all processes in your infrastructure. Matching processes and counts are displayed below the search:

Reviewer: Should we avoid using "fuzzy" here? @robertjli @wiyu @kkhor-datadog @badovm @mbotarro for thoughts

Reviewer 2: We already mention fuzzy search in a couple of places so it seems fine, but seems worth clarifying this is for the text search only i.e. "fuzzy search" -> "fuzzy text search"

https://github.com/search?q=repo%3ADataDog%2Fdocumentation%20fuzzy&type=code

Author: Updated!

{{< img src="monitors/monitor_types/process/select_processes.png" alt="Select processes" style="width:90%;">}}

> After defining your search, a graph is displayed above the search inputs with an approximation of the total number of processes found. It's recommended to keep your monitor scoped to a few thousands processes. Use additional tags to narrow the search down or consider splitting a monitor into multiple ones if needed. For more granular data, visit your [Live Process Page][4].

Reviewer: Nit: It's -> It is
```suggestion
After defining your search, a graph is displayed above the search inputs with an approximation of the total number of processes found. It is recommended to keep your monitor scoped to a few thousands processes. Use additional tags to narrow the search down or consider splitting a monitor into multiple ones if needed. For more granular data, visit your [Live Process Page][4].
```

Reviewer: Should we also clarify here with - since with larger process counts numbers are calculated as approximate? @robertjli @mbotarro what's the best way to articulate this?

Reviewer 2: few thousands processes -> few thousand processes

Author: > since with larger process counts numbers are calculated as approximate
I'm not sure this is true, frankly. I believe that we simply count the number of results that we get in our backend. Curious to hear what @robertjli and @mbotarro have to say.

Author: FYI - I addressed all the other points!

## Overview

Live Process Monitors are based on data collected by the [Process Agent][1]. Create monitors that warn or alert based on the count of any group of processes across hosts or tags.

Live Process Monitors are best used in the following scenarios:

- Ensure that enough instances of a non-containerized long-lived process are running.
- Flag when a specific process is running.

**Note**: Only long-lived processes are picked up by the Agent. Monitors on processes that live for less than 20 seconds may be flaky.

## Monitor creation

> There are two ways to create a [Live Process Monitor][7]:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are two ways to create a Live Process Monitor:
```

#### Tags search

Filter processes to monitor by their tags. Datadog recommends trying to filter processes by their tags before using the full text search.

#### Full text search

If you cannot scope processes down to the granularity you would like using tags, you can use text search to filter against both command lines and username. The search performs a partial match and fuzzy searches across all processes on your infrastructure. Search operators `AND`, `OR`, and `NOT` are supported. See the [Live Process Monitoring documentation][3] for more details.

##### Examples

| Example Query | Explanation |
|---|---|
| `foo AND bar` | Matches any process whose command line contains both `foo` and `bar` |
| `foo AND NOT bar` | Matches any process whose command line contains `foo` but not `bar`. |
| `foo OR bar` | Matches any process that contains `foo` or `bar`. |

> | `foo bar` | Same as above. |

Author: Ah thats a good point, I will remove it!

> | `foo bar` | Same as above. |

Reviewer 4: Why remove it instead of correcting it?

## Overview

Live Process Monitors are based on data collected by the [Process Agent][1]. Create monitors that warn or alert based on the count of any group of processes across hosts or tags.

Live Process Monitors are recommended for the following use cases:

> - Ensure that enough instances of a non-containerized process are running.

Author: Long lived processes

> - Flag when a specific process is executed.

Author: ```suggestion
- Flag when a specific process is running.
```

Reviewer 4: I'm just curious, why "executed" over "running"?

Author: I don't remember what the exact reason was, but I believe `running` is more accurate since lp monitors don't alert on process events.

Reviewer 4: That's correct, we don't detect process execution currently, we only collect processes that are running for two checks (typically 20 seconds).

I asked because the suggestion was not committed but resolved, but it looks like you accepted the suggestion in the meantime

## Overview

Live Process Monitors are based on data collected by the [Process Agent][1]. Create monitors that warn or alert based on the count of any group of processes across hosts or tags.

> Live Process Monitors are recommended for the following use cases:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Live Process Monitors are recommended to:
```

- Ensure that enough instances of a non-containerized long-lived process are running.
- Flag when a specific process is running.

> **Note**: Only long lived processes are picked up by the Agent. This means that monitors on processes that live for less than 20 seconds may be flaky.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Note**: Only long-lived processes are picked up by the Agent. Monitors on processes that live for less than 20 seconds may be flaky.
```

## Monitor creation

To create a [Live Process Monitor][2] in Datadog, use the main navigation: *Monitors --> New Monitor --> Live Process*.

### Select processes

You can use either tags or a fuzzy search to filter across all processes in your infrastructure. Matching processes and counts are displayed below the search:

{{< img src="monitors/monitor_types/process/select_processes.png" alt="Select processes" style="width:90%;">}}

> After defining your search, a graph is displayed above the search inputs with an approximation of the total number of processes found. For more granular data, visit your [Live Process Page][4].

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
After defining your search, a graph is displayed above the search inputs with an approximation of the total number of processes found. It's recommended to keep your monitor scoped to a few thousands processes. Use additional tags to narrow the search down or consider splitting a monitor into multiple ones if needed. For more granular data, visit your [Live Process Page][4].
```

#### Tags search

> Filter processes to monitor by their tags. Datadog recommends that you first try to filter processes by their tags before using full text search.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Filter processes to monitor by their tags. Datadog recommends trying to filter processes by their tags before using the full text search.
```

#### Full text search

> If you cannot scope processes down to the granularity you would like using tags, you can use text search to filter against both command lines and username. The full text search field performs a partial match and the fuzzy search searches across all processes on your infrastructure. Search operators `AND`, `OR`, and `NOT` are supported. See the [Live Process Monitoring documentation][3] for more details.

Author: Ahh good point - it was not intentional

> If you cannot scope processes down to the granularity you would like using tags, it is possible to filter processes by their commandline. The full text search field performs a partial match, fuzzy search across all processes on your infrastructure. Search operators `AND`, `OR`, `NOT` are supported. See the [Live Process Monitoring][3] page for more details.

Reviewer 4: FYI, text terms are matched against both command line and username

Author: Ah great point! I will add this to the documentation

> If you cannot scope processes down to the granularity you would like using tags, you can use text search to filter against both commandlines and username. The full text search field performs a partial match, fuzzy search across all processes on your infrastructure. Search operators `AND`, `OR`, `NOT` are supported. See the [Live Process Monitoring][3] page for more details.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you cannot scope processes down to the granularity you would like using tags, you can use text search to filter against both command lines and username. The full text search field performs a partial match and the fuzzy search searches across all processes on your infrastructure. Search operators `AND`, `OR`, and `NOT` are supported. See the [Live Process Monitoring documentation][3] for more details.
```

##### Examples

| Example Query | Explanation |
|---|---|

> | `foo AND bar` | Matches any process whoose commandline contains both `foo` and `bar` |
> | `foo AND NOT bar` | Matches any process whoose commandline contains `foo` but not `bar`. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `foo AND bar` | Matches any process whose command line contains both `foo` and `bar` |
| `foo AND NOT bar` | Matches any process whose command line contains `foo` but not `bar`. |
```

Live process monitors are based on data collected by the [Process Agent][1]. Create monitors that warn or alert based on the count of any group of processes across hosts or tags.

> Live Process Monitors work best in the following use cases:

Author: Love it!

- Making sure that enough instances of a process exist in a non-containerized application.

> - Making sure that specific unwanted processes are never seen.

Author: :+1:

> - Making sure that specific unwanted processes are never seen.

Reviewer: Enough instances strikes me as odd here. Maybe - expected number of instances?

### Set alert conditions

- The count was `above`, `above or equal to`, `below`, or `below or equal to`
- the threshold during the last `5 minutes`, `15 minutes`, `1 hour`, or larger. Additionally, you can use `custom` to set a value between 5 minutes and 24 hours.

Use thresholds to set a numeric value for triggering an alert. Datadog has two types of notifications (alert and warning). Live Process Monitors recover automatically based on the alert or warning threshold.

#### Best practices for timeframe selection

Datadog recommends to pick the largest timeframe that you can support. This allows for additional fault tolerance in the case where an Agent becomes unavailable or encounters network issues.

> Live Process Monitors uses a [rolling time](https://docs.datadoghq.com/monitors/configuration/?tab=thresholdalert#evaluation-window) windows to evaluate process count, e.g. the monitor triggers when the alerting condition is met in the past X minutes. It’s recommended to not use evaluation windows shorter than 5 minutes to prevent the monitor from triggering if there is any sporadic network disruption between the Process Agent and Datadog.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Live Process Monitors uses a [rolling time window](https://docs.datadoghq.com/monitors/configuration/?tab=thresholdalert#evaluation-window) to evaluate process count, e.g. the monitor triggers when the alerting condition is met in the past X minutes. It’s recommended to not use evaluation windows shorter than 5 minutes to prevent the monitor from triggering if there is any sporadic network disruption between the Process Agent and Datadog.
```

### Set alert conditions

> - The count was `above`, `above or equal to`, `below`, or `below or equal to`

Reviewer 4: I would also specify that "count" here means the count of all matching processes that were alive during the time interval

Author: Good point, added!

### Set alert conditions

- The count was `above`, `above or equal to`, `below`, or `below or equal to`
- the threshold during the last `5 minutes`, `15 minutes`, `1 hour`, or larger. Additionally, you can use `custom` to set a value between 5 minutes and 24 hours.

> Process Count in this case, refers to the number of all matching processes that were alive during the time interval.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Process Count, in this case, refers to the number of all matching processes that were alive during the time interval.
```

> Use thresholds to set a numeric value for triggering an alert. Datadog has two types of notifications (alert and warning). Live Process Monitors recover automatically based on the alert or warning threshold.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use thresholds to set a numeric value for triggering an alert. Datadog has two types of notifications: alert and warning. Live Process Monitors recover automatically based on the alert or warning threshold.
```

#### Best practices for timeframe selection

> Datadog recommends to pick the largest timeframe that you can support. This allows for additional fault tolerance in the case where an Agent becomes unavailable or encounters network issues.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Datadog recommends picking the largest timeframe that you can support. This allows for additional fault tolerance in the case where an Agent becomes unavailable or encounters network issues.
```

> Datadog recommends picking the largest timeframe that you can support. This allows for additional fault tolerance in the case where an Agent becomes unavailable or encounters network issues.
> 
> Live Process Monitors uses a [rolling time window](https://docs.datadoghq.com/monitors/configuration/?tab=thresholdalert#evaluation-window) to evaluate process count. In other words, every minute, the monitor checks the past X minutes and triggers if the alerting condition is met. Using evaluation windows shorter than 5 minutes is not recommended in case there is any sporadic network disruption between the Process Agent and Datadog.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Live Process Monitors uses a [rolling time window](https://docs.datadoghq.com/monitors/configuration/?tab=thresholdalert#evaluation-window) to evaluate process count. In other words, every minute, the monitor checks the past X minutes and triggers if the alerting condition is met. Using evaluation windows shorter than 5 minutes is discouraged in order to prevent any false positive due to sporadic network disruption between the Process Agent and Datadog.

```

Author: Great suggestion! For some reason the github app wouldn't let me apply this one from the UI, but I totally agree!

### Set alert conditions

- The count was `above`, `above or equal to`, `below`, or `below or equal to`

> - the threshold during the last `5 minutes`, `15 minutes`, `1 hour`, etc. Additionally, you can use `custom` to set a value between 5 minutes and 24 hours.

Author: Not quite sure what to do about the `vale` warning here. I think "`5 minutes`, `15 minutes`, `1 hour`, and more" sounds a bit strange.

Reviewer 5: What about "or larger time frames"?

Author: That sounds good to me!

Use thresholds to set a numeric value for triggering an alert. Datadog has two types of notifications (alert and warning). Live process monitors recover automatically based on the alert or warning threshold.

#### Best practices for timeframe selection

Datadog recommends to pick the largest timeframe that you can support. This allows for additional fault tolerance in the case where an Agent becomes unavailable or encounters network issues.

> Datadog recommends to always choose a timeframe that is 5 minutes or larger. This is because a network disruption or clock drift can cause 1 minute monitors to produce false positives. As a result, datadog plans on eventually phasing out 1 minute monitors.

Reviewer 5: What do you think of reframing it to something like

> Live Process Monitor uses a rolling time windows to evaluate process count (link to documentation), e.g. the monitor triggers when the alerting condition is met in the past X minutes. It’s recommended to not use evaluation windows shorter than 5 minutes to prevent the monitor from triggering if there is any sporadic network disruption between the Process Agent and Datadog.

Documentation that is worth linking: https://docs.datadoghq.com/monitors/configuration/?tab=thresholdalert#evaluation-window

Author: I like this! Updated

- The count was `above`, `above or equal to`, `below`, or `below or equal to`
- the threshold during the last `5 minutes`, `15 minutes`, `1 hour`, or larger. Additionally, you can use `custom` to set a value between 5 minutes and 24 hours.

Process Count in this case, refers to the number of all matching processes that were alive during the time interval.

Use thresholds to set a numeric value for triggering an alert. Datadog has two types of notifications (alert and warning). Live Process Monitors recover automatically based on the alert or warning threshold.

#### Best practices for timeframe selection

Datadog recommends to pick the largest timeframe that you can support. This allows for additional fault tolerance in the case where an Agent becomes unavailable or encounters network issues.

> Live Process Monitors uses a [rolling time](https://docs.datadoghq.com/monitors/configuration/?tab=thresholdalert#evaluation-window) window to evaluate process count. In other words, every minute, the monitor checks the past X minutes and triggers if the alerting condition is met. Using evaluation windows shorter than 5 minutes is not recommended in case there is any sporadic network disruption between the Process Agent and Datadog.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Live Process Monitors uses a [rolling time window](https://docs.datadoghq.com/monitors/configuration/?tab=thresholdalert#evaluation-window) to evaluate process count. In other words, every minute, the monitor checks the past X minutes and triggers if the alerting condition is met. Using evaluation windows shorter than 5 minutes is not recommended in case there is any sporadic network disruption between the Process Agent and Datadog.
```
